Flock is a distributive computing platform built to run in the browser. The idea behind Flock is to make a distributed computing platform as accessible as possible to any device that can run a web browser. By simply opening a browser tab, volunteers will be able to contribute computing resources to distributing computing tasks, such as scientific research, mathematics, and complex computational problems. Workloads will be written in Java Script and executed by the browser. Since Java Script is not the most petformant language, there will be no presumption of speed from worker nodes, which translates to the ability of any device, fast or slow, to contribute computation. The basic use case of Flock is to enable a great number of nodes to work together over a smaller number of worker nodes.

While at UC, I have had several courses that will serve to prepare me for this project. Courses covering EECE3093C software engineering have prepared me for the requirements and planning phases of the project. Software engineering has also taught me how to effectively test and estimate time commitments for the project. Courses I'm currently in, such as CS5168 Parallel Computing, are teaching me about writing code that is asynchronous and distributed across machines. Other courses, such as CS2028C data structures and CS4003 programming languages, have taught me language constructs which will be useful in building a strong and capable platform. Finally, a course like EECE4029 Operating Systems may assist in keeping our platform secure.

My experiences on co-op have also prepared me to write Flock. While on co-op I've been exposed to different methods of effort tracking and task estimation. While at GE Digital as a Digital Technology Intern, I was exposed to writing a webserver and administering an API, which Flock will require. While at Etegent Technologies as a Software Engineering Co-op, I wrote business critical software, which taught me about being thorough and ensuring testing software covers all uses and edge cases. On my first co-op experiences at Siemens PLM Software as a Software Engineering Co-op I learned about version control and priority management, both tasks that will be necessary to finish flock on time and efficiently. Throughout all my co-op experiences I have had the opportunity to build my programming skills, culminating in the ability to write Flock.

My motivation to write this project is both utilitarian and self-interested--personally, I have a number of low-power computing devices that are currently unused, such as old tablets and Android devices. Because Flock will run in the browser, this project could give them new life! Furthermore, Flock represents an opportunity to provide the world with free (volunteered) computing resources, which can be used to further scientific research and other utilitarian uses. I'm excited to work on the project because I believe it will be interesting and difficult to implement; there will be security concerns, a need to optimize for efficiency, and a central system for administering jobs, all of which pose numerous interesting technical issues. Working on this project will expose me to new technologies and programming paradigms.

Our preliminary approach to this problem is relatively simple: We'll set up a central repository holding a work job which worker nodes can pull work from and send results to. Initially, we'll rely on the browser's built in security for sandboxing and the built-in execution engine to run JavaScript. In the end, our result will ideally be a platform that can run arbitrary jobs and report results back to a single repository. Our project will be sufficient if we can proof of concept it with an example workload, such as folding@home. We will be able to guage the success of our project by how optimized the performance of our platform is. Time permitting, we may also be able to expand the project to incentivize contributing resources.