Flock is a browser-based distributed computing platform. The purpose of Flock is to allow users to create or subscribe to open distributed computing projects. What makes Flock uniue is its openness and ease of use. Today's distributed computing platforms, like UC Berkeley's BOINC, require users to download clients in order to use their spare computational resources for these distributed computing projects. Their dependency on a client restrict what devices can run distributed computing software. Additionally, the dependency on a client means modifying each client every time a new project is added to the platform. Flock lets browser vendors bear the burden of creating cross-platform computing apps. Distributed computing projects can write code for only one platform - the browser. Then, users can simply open a webpage to dedicate spare computing resources to running these JavaScript or WebAssembly workloads.

A few of the courses I've had at UC are particularly relevant to the design of Flock. The most relevant is probably EECE3093C, Software Engineering. Flock is going to be a large project - probably the largest I will have worked on outside of Co-op. A project on this scale requires a sensible, mature system design. The principles of software engineering and system design I learned in that class will help us design a clean, well-functioning platform. Also relevant will be CS4003, Programming Languages, and EECE 4080, Data Structures and Algorithms. These courses taught me the basics of using programming languages effectively. Those skills will be relevant in Flock's implementation.

The skills I've learned on Co-op are also relevant to this project. At AMD, I was responsible for the development of a piece of software responsible for characterizing, testing, and binning all of AMD's next-gen EPYC CPUs. Not only was I the primary developer, I also got to lead the rest of my team in developing the portions of the program they were responsible for. Leading the development of a piece of software gave me a chance to practice my software planning and software development skills. Planning was particularly important. The speed of this program was extremely important - test time translates directly into money spent. The program also had to be easy to maintain, because it's going to continue to exist for a long time, and will need to be adapted for newer products.

My motivation for this project is my interest in distributed and parallel computing, and my desire to create something impactful. Essentially, Flock is a platform for timing- and speed-insensitive parallel computing problems. Enabling those problems to be worked on is a pretty cool goal to me. Additionally, Flock provides an opportunity to reduce wasted computing resources. I have a lot of old phones, tablets, and even some computers that are sitting around unused. Flock will make it easier for those to be put to good use.

Our preliminary approach is to create a webserver that holds jobs. Visiting the Flock webpage and selecting a job will make that browser tab a worker. Workers make requests for specific tasks to that webserver. A worker receives a task from the webserver, completes it, and then makes another request to the webserver with the result of that job. This behavior is repeated until the browser tab is closed. We will consider Flock to be successful when that workflow is possible. We can start with a simple proof of concept job, like the Infinite Monkey Theorem, to demonstrate that the platform works. Over time, we will improve the platform to add extras like incentives to complete tasks.
