# About the Project

In a few words, the goal of our project flock is to create a way for browser-enabled devices to contribute their computational power by joining a browser-based distributed system/cluster. The motivation behind this is that while there is always work that can be completed with computational effort, various devices such as old smartphones are underutilized. Whatsmore, while distributed systems can be useful for aggregating computational effort from a collection of weaker nodes to complete a task, there is a hard barrier to entry in participating in a cluster. Through this project, our team hopes to address these issues. Additionally, I feel that this project will be interesting and also challenging. It will be exciting to develop a deeper understanding about browsers and how they can be leveraged for this task. Moreover, it will also be challenging to learn about this while also developing a distributed system as I have not tried to build something like this before.

# How UCs Curriculum Will Guide Development
From the perspective of this project as a software development effort, I feel that the Software Engineering course I have taken (EECE3093C) will play a large role in planning and design. In this class we learned important techniques for steps throughout the software development process. Some of these included gathering requirements, using this information to design a product, creating a timeline, and identifying milestones and other goals. In addition to this, the knowledge gained from Information Security and Assurance (IT2030C) will help me to ensure that security and privacy are included as key parts of the requirements and design. In terms of the actual design and implementation of this project, courses such as Database Design (CS4092), Cloud Computing (CS5165), and Parallel Computing (CS5168) will be highly valuable. These classes are important for understanding the nature of a distributed environment, being wary about some of the pitfalls of this space, and also how to overcome some of these obstacles (Eg: transactional operations to avoid conflicts, following ACID to maintain consistency, etc.). Although I am only in the Parallel and Cloud Computing courses this semester, our team will be able to adapt our designs and requirements for this project as each member gains new information.

# How Co-op Experiences Will Guide Development

I would say that the co-op experiences that will be most applicable to this project will be my last three co-ops: my most recent co-op at Amazon this past summer working on a web service for internally managing promotions, and the other two at US Bank working on a web application used for business-banking. My third and fourth co-op experiences were spent at US Bank as a Java Development Intern. This primarily involved working within the J2EE backend of their business banking software, Singlepoint. During this time I learned some very valuable knowledge about Java-based backends, how a web server communicates with a database, and how this data is built into a webpage before it is sent to the client. While not all of this knowledge will be directly applicable to this project, I feel that this experience gave me a strong foundation in this area. As well as this, I was able to develop a strong sense of software development best practices while working at US Bank. During my time there I was introduced to concepts such as sprint planning, daily standups, retrospectives, task estimation and quite a bit more. The expectations of the software development process that I gained from this experience will allow me to be effective at developing for this project. I would also say that my experience at US Bank prepared me well for my experience with Amazon this past summer as a Software Development Engineering Intern. I found that this experience was very similar to my time at US Bank in the sense that we also did daily standups, sprint plannings and worked on a Java-based stack. Having said this, I had the opporunity over this past summer to take more ownership over my work than I had been given in the past. I was given requirements for a refactor of an internal web application (that included building a new React app to replace the current front end), and was made responsible for writing out scenarios, planning milestones and generally documenting my planning. From this experience I learned a lot not only about how this process works, but also about some of my areas for growth. For example, I noticed that when planning out my work, I paid a lot more attention to the results and less on the implementation, which meant that some pitfalls were not found until later on in development. During this senior project, I look forward to being more wary around this and growing more in this area.

# Why I am Excited to Work on this Project

I am excited to start working on this project because I feel that it is an excellent fit to my experience, interests, and motivations. From my past co-ops (and also from my hackathon participation), it can be seen that much of my experience is centered around web technologies. I am fascinated about how ubiquitous and prevalent this platform is. Moreover, I also feel that the web's values of making information and technology accessible to all aligns tightly with this project, whose goals are to lower the barrier to entry for contributing computational effort, while also potentially providing a cheap source of computational work. On top of this I am increasingly interested in the cloud and distributed systems, and so I see this project as a great way for me to learn about this area, some of the challenges it introduces, some of the techniques used here, and its general nature. Lastly, when coming up with an idea for a senior design project, one of my priorities has been to build something that may be useful to someone. I aimed to create something for this that would be able to provide value to someone. Because of the aforementioned issues that this project addresses, I am motivated to complete it, and because of my familiarity and continued curiosity around these topics, I will be motivated to gain the skills and knowledge necessary for this project to become a success.

# Initial Approach and Expectations

At a high level, our teams initial approach is to have a backend that will act as a master node for the distributed system, and that the web browser clients will act as the worker nodes. We will process job requests, and complete scheduling on the backend before dispatching the work to a node among a collection of subscribed workers. Since this is a broad and general vision, before beginning our project, our team needs to make some key decisions about our project and what we will produce. Firstly, I feel that a core decision to be made is what format 'work' will take on this distributed system/ cluster. We will need to answer the question: 'what information/ message(s) will the master communicate to it's workers in order to get work done?'. Along this vein, it will also be important to consolidate the idea of what sorts of work our distributed system will be able to perform. After answering these key questions, we will begin to get a much clearer idea of the shape our final product will take, which will help us to form the remaining requirements for this project. While compiling requirements for this project, our team will also need to familiarize ourselves more via our classes, and also through individual investigation, with key design considerations for distributed systems. By doing this, we will be able to take our requirements and this knowledge and begin designing a solution. While designing it may be valuable to build prototypes and proofs-of-concept to help iteratively inform our designing. After this is done, we can begin to set milestones and plan implementation. When our work is done and the cluster is built, we will be able to assess our success firstly by checking against the scenarios and use cases included in our requirements. We should be able to easily add nodes to the cluster, and complete work on it. Furthermore, we may be able to begin evaluating if we have done a good job by releasing our product into the community and observing if it is a useful tool that provides real value.
